```json
{
  "subjective": "The patient presents today for a dental check-up and expresses concerns about discomfort while chewing and missing teeth on both sides of the mouth. The patient reports experiencing bleeding gums, particularly around the back teeth, during brushing. They are aware of the missing teeth and have been considering options like implants or partial dentures. The patient is unaware of any issues related to remaining tooth roots and has not experienced pain or swelling in those areas.",
  "objective": "Panoramic X-rays reveal multiple areas of concern: Several teeth are missing in both the upper and lower arches, particularly molars on the lower jaw, impacting the bite. A few remaining tooth roots are present in the lower jaw, requiring monitoring for potential infection or removal if symptoms arise. Some remaining teeth show wear and potential bone loss around the roots, indicating possible periodontal disease. Mild to moderate bone loss is evident on X-rays, consistent with the patient's reported gum bleeding. Teeth shifting and tilting are noted due to missing teeth, impacting bite alignment and cleaning efficacy.",
  "assessment": "1. Missing teeth in multiple quadrants. \n2. Mild to moderate periodontal disease with bone loss. \n3. Retained root tips in the lower arch. \n4. Malocclusion secondary to missing teeth.",
  "plan": "1. Explained the importance of replacing missing teeth to restore proper bite function and prevent further shifting. \n2. Discussed implant consultation with an oral surgeon as a potential permanent solution for missing teeth. Explained the benefits and process of dental implants. \n3. Recommended deep cleaning (scaling and root planing) to address gum inflammation and bone loss associated with periodontal disease. \n4. Emphasized the importance of good oral hygiene practices, including regular brushing and flossing, to maintain gum health. \n5. Advised monitoring remaining tooth roots for any signs of pain, swelling, or infection, with possible extraction if necessary. \n6. Scheduled a follow-up appointment to monitor progress and address any further concerns."
}
```